# Used-Car-Sales-Database-Application
  Buying a car can be one of the biggest expenses in your life, and it can also be one of the most challenging as well. With new brands and new segments of cars popping up everywhere, it can be hard to know what you want. However, the car buying process no longer requires lengthy trips to the dealership to be badgered by a salesperson; you can now do everything from the comfort of your home. The emergence of the global COVID-19 pandemic reinforces the need for online car vendors, and the emergence of startups such as Carvana validates the desire for this style of car shopping. The following report describes the creation and deployment of a web-based car buying experience which utilizes SQL, PHP, and HTML to build the application. 

	Before building the application, the business fundamentals of an online car vendor had to be drawn up. Building this foundation first included creating a detailed list of business rules. These business rules govern how the car vendor operates, such as how customers are able to explore the vendor’s website, how cars and dealerships are able to be stored and organized on the site, the features allowed for the cars, etc. Once these business rules were solidified, the next step was to create a detailed Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD). Before creating the actual diagram, detailed descriptions of each entity had to be formed which cover the features of each entity. These features were then used to fill the ERD, and would eventually be used as the basis for future database tables. This ERD lays the framework for the future application as it describes the relationships between the various entities and how they are allowed to interact with each other. This is a crucial step as the ERD defines the primary and foreign keys of the entities which helps to create a seamless flow of information between the entities, thereby resulting in a seamless customer experience. Once the foundation was built, it was time to start building the database. All of the necessary tables were created using SQL Create Table commands describing the features and type of features for each entity. Once the necessary tables were created, the tables were filled with instances utilizing SQL Insert Into commands. Lastly, to test the newly created tables, user retrieval queries were created using Select commands. Now with a functional database, it was time for the application to be created and the process of which is outlined in detail later in the report. 
  
	The application described in this report was created through an end-to-end effort to bring an enjoyable car-buying experience to customers. Not only were the business fundamentals considered, but the creation of the necessary database was completed using SQL. Although this application is still in its infancy, it’s proving to be worthy of entering the burgeoning online car marketplace.
